All right guys.
Now we're gonna get started with the the mobile version of the Web site.
So let's make this a little smaller here and we're gonna have a few some styles are gonna vary whether
it's a tablet or whether it's a smartphone.
So basically for tablets I want I want this to be two columns OK.
I want just two two columns but on mobile on smartphones I want it to be stacked in one column.
But let's let's handle the navigation first.
So the navigation is going to be the same on tablet and mobile.
Now in our each team l files we already have a link to mobile CSX.
And basically it kicks in when the screen is 768 or less.
So let's let's keep Stiles the SS open so we can use this as a reference.
And let's take mobile CSX and let's bring this over to the side here and let me see if I can only fit
all this on here.
Let's see if we can do this.
That's all right.
So hopefully this this works out for you guys that you can see this.
Good.
So let's start with the navigation.
Now one thing right off the bat that I want to do is you get rid of the social icons unless it's on
you know larger than 768.
So let's put a comment here we'll say navigation and then let's take the main dash nav I.D. and target
the class of social and let's set that to display none and save.
So that we'll get rid of it.
Now this doesn't look bad.
It really doesn't.
And in this would probably be fine if if if you never planned on adding any other links if you just
had these two links home and about but I don't like to do things that way I like to to planet.
You know I like to make it scalable basically.
So we're going to switch this around a little bit.
Let's take the navigation container.
So we have main dash NAV and container and let's set the grid template columns to just one FDR.
OK.
So basically just on top of each other.
And I'm also going to say grid gap.
Let's do one point two Ram.
All right.
Now we want these to be centered right.
So we're gonna take the well.
So let's say main dash nav you add which is the menu and we're going to justify self to center.
OK.
So I do that it pushes it in the middle and then I think that's all I want to do with the well so here
we had justified self end which pad all the way over.
Now we have it in the middle.
Now the logo we want to do the same thing.
So actually what we can do is just add onto this main nav logo.
And that puts it in the middle.
Now for the link I want to lessen the padding just a little bit.
So we have point seven five REM for the padding around this.
But I want to make this a little smaller so let's say main NAV and you al ally a and let's change the
padding.
Two point five o room.
So let's just.
It just makes it a little bit smaller.
All right.
Now that's pretty much all we need to do for the menu.
So you'll see as soon as we hit 768 it turns into that.
Now it's still sticky of course.
All right.
Now for tablet size I want this right here on tablets I want this to be the same.
So I'm going to leave that for now we're not we're not doing mobile yet.
Ah I shouldn't say mobile tablets are also mobile but we're not doing small smartphone devices yet.
So I'm going to leave this for now.
Let's move on to this area which is the home articles and I want those to be in two two columns.
So let's say home dash articles and it has an articles container which is our grid container and we're
going to set grid dash template dash columns.
And let me just show you over here what we have it's set to.
So we have it set to repeat three one far.
But I just want it to say I'm going to say repeat to one far.
All right.
We'll save that.
So let's see the first child here yeah.
We want to get rid of these spans because that's kind of that's kind of ruining things.
So let's grab the first child so we'll say home articles and we want to target articles container and
we want the immediate element the immediate first child element and let's set grid template columns
because remember the first and the last there.
There are also grids as you can see right here and they have grid template columns of 2 1 at far.
We just want to set it to a single column.
So just one file like that.
All right.
And then we want to clear the span because right here you can see we're doing the span.
So I'm going to say grid dash column and just set it to 1 which is just the default.
So let's save that.
Now this is put back into just it's just like the rest of them.
Let's do the same for the last one.
So we can actually just copy this and put a comma here and then change this to last child save that.
And there we go.
So now we just have two columns OK.
No matter what.
First and last are the same as the rest.
Good.
Now I think that's that's good for the tablet.
In fact let's check it out.
So actually we'll use our chrome tools here and lets me just move this to the side and we'll hit the
little icon here for the devices and this would be an iPad.
Let me just stretch to so.
And right now this iPad is in landscape mode so I'm going to just flip it and this is what it's going
to look like.
OK.
Which which looks pretty good even though the footer I'll keep like that for our devices that are 768
like this.
But on smaller devices like let's choose iPhone X.
This doesn't look right.
So we want this to be in the middle.
So just take up the whole thing here and then I want these to all be stacked the footer is definitely
not responsive.
So we want that to be stacked as well about page.
We want to change that up the page container.
Same thing with the article page.
So now let's deal with smaller devices.
So I'm going to get out of this mode here and bring this back down.
And now in this mobile dot CSX I'm going to I'm going to add a media query so going to say media and
I'm going to do a max width of let's say six hundred pixels and then anything we put in here is only
going to pertain to anything under 600 pixels.
So let's let's take what we need to stack.
Meaning I want just one column.
So I'm going to say stack grid items and there's a few things I want.
I want to do that too.
One is going to be the showcase container.
This right here if you're a member or I can just show you real quick let's see showcase
showcase container is set to grid template columns.
Repeat to 1 5.
We want it to just be just one at far so we're going to take this luxury.
We should probably put the select there here first.
So it's a showcase dot showcase container and we just want to change this to just simply one at far
like that.
And if we save now that goes all the way across there's some other things you want to stack such as
the these home articles.
So let's say home I.D..
Home Articles and we want the container which is articles container and we want those to stack.
So we'll save.
There we go.
So that looks pretty good
yeah.
All right.
So what else.
The footer.
So we want these footer items to stack.
So let's go ahead and put a comma here and let's say main dash footer.
We want the footer container and save and it didn't work when that work means footer.
Why isn't working
we called it mean footwear.
Correct.
Let's just check it over here.
So have main footer
for the container and it set off basically for one Fa oh you know what it is it's the span the last
child here we span so we want to clear that up.
So let's take this the selector right here and put that in and let's grab the.
What was it the last child is what we span so let's say last child
he got the cone and then we want to set the grid column
to 1 and save and now it stacks because if you have something spanning however many columns four columns
it's going to it's going to.
You can't have just one f far it's going to it's going to adapt to whatever the amount of columns that
you're spanning.
So we want to set make sure that that set to 1 All right.
Now another thing I want to do here is this looks kind of really clumped together.
So I want to add a faint border between the modules here or whatever you want to call these these these
items.
So let's go and say main footer and take the footer container and let's say all items in the footer
container.
I'm going to add a border bottom of four four four dotted one pixel and then some padding just a separated
a bit.
So we'll say padding dash border and let's set that to one room and that's what's going on here.
Padding I see padding border with the parking bottom.
OK.
So as you can see now we have a border separating all of these with some padding now.
This one here doesn't look right because of the we have the list items and we have a border for each
one.
So this kind of looks funny having it's like it looks like a double border really.
So I want to remove that one and remember we have the end child.
I also want to remove this one.
I don't think that that needs to be there because this has its own background and it looks completely
separate.
So that's pretty easy to do.
We can just say main footer for our container and then let's say we want the item we want the last child.
So Colin last child and then we also want just copy this.
We want this one here which is going to be the third one down.
Right.
The third item so we'll use any child.
So any child three.
And let's just set border to none and save.
And now you can see that that border is gone and oh actually you know what.
We don't want the last child would be this one which I guess yeah we would want to move that remove
that one but if we want to move this one as well we can use and child
so we'll copy that and let's do.
And child 4 and save.
And now that board is gone.
All right.
And we could we could have done it the opposite way and just chose this first first child.
And child 2 and just added a border we did that as well I guess that that probably I guess that would
be a better way to do it.
Yeah let's actually do it that way it's less it's less CSX and I'm not gonna cut this out of the video
because I just want to show you you can do things different ways.
So instead of doing this instead of putting a border on all and then removing let's just pick out the
first child so first dash child and then the end child 2 and we'll add the border and then we.
There's no need to do this and it's less CSF.
So if I save we get the same result so we just added the border here and here instead of to all and
then removing it.
All right.
So I mean you know I could cut that out and just redo it but I want you guys to see that there's there's
different ways to do things and sometimes you realize that when you're writing your code.
I think you'll see what we have left the page container.
So right now I mean this is done on the home page but if we go to a boat that doesn't look right and
it's you know it's way too thin.
So we just want to put this.
We want to stack this into one column.
So one that fire basically.
So let's take the page container in let's say grid template columns one at far so we're gonna stack
it.
And I also want to align everything to the Center on on really small screen so we'll do text align center.
Now if I save this sea wall.
Yeah I guess that does work.
Let's look at the article page.
Yeah.
That that works.
But I do want to clear the row span because remember we do have a row span.
If we look at sea or is it if we look at the page contain a first child we have a grid row spanning
here so I'm going to just grab that and we're gonna set grid row just to one and save all right.
So that looks pretty good.
So our site is now complete.
Let's go.
Let's go ahead and check it out in the actual devices.
So we'll open up our dev tools here.
Click that icon.
So this is an iPhone X.
Everything looks pretty good footer is stacked.
We have our two borders.
Yeah.
So that looks pretty good.
Let's check the about page.
All right.
That's that's quite a bit of text there and we probably didn't need that much text but that's fine.
And if you guys want to add onto the I would actually suggest that you add onto these projects you know
add more pages add more little widgets and stuff like that.
Let's see what do we have the article page.
Take a look at that.
Looks pretty good if you want to stack the Flex items here.
You could do that but I think that that's OK.
Yeah.
Everything looks good.
Let's check a pixel too.
Yeah same.
Same deal.
Let's check the iPhone 5 which is sometimes hard to to make look good.
But I think that this is pretty good about page.
Oh you know what we should do is lessen the font size for the L heading on mobile devices.
So we'll say l dash heading I think I have it set to three rooms so let's set font size to two.
OK.
And yeah.
That looks that looks.
That looks better.
All right guys hopefully you enjoyed this project and hopefully you learned quite a bit about how to
use CSX grid and that's it.
Thanks for watching guys.
I appreciate it.